#+TITLE: Sprint 2: Literature Review
#+AUTHOR: Kim Ho and Jackson Harrod
#+SUBTITLE: DSC 205 - Advanced introduction to data science
#+STARTUP: overview hideblocks indent inlineimages entitiespretty
#+OPTIONS: toc:nil num:nil ^:nil
#+PROPERTY: header-args:R :session *R* :results output :exports both :noweb yes

#+begin_example
This is our literature review for the second sprint of our project on
the R package, ggvis. It is broken up by source.

Our research strategies were originally to use google search, google
scholar, and ChatGPT to find sources to use. However, after struggling
to find quality sources on our topic, we asked the college librarian
for help finding sources and they were able to direct us towards some
of the college's resources.
#+end_example

#+begin_example
Magnuson, Lauren, and Tim Dennis. “Chapter 9: Data Visualization : A
Guide to Visual Storytelling for Libraries.” Data Visualization: A
Guide to Visual Storytelling for Libraries, Rowman & Littlefield,
Lanham, 2016, pp. 149–172.

Summary/About: This chapter of this book goes through many uses and
examples of how to use ggvis and explains them well. It talks about
the background of ggvis, and gives a very well explained tutorial on
how to use ggvis.
Achieve: This chapter intends to explain how to setup and use ggvis,
with many datasets shown as examples.  Relevance: High; we intend to
use this source mostly in our methods to help us learn ggvis and its
many uses.

Evaluation: Even though the intended audience of this book was his
fellow librarians, the author created a very well written, deeply
explained tutorial on ggvis.

Credibility: High; this chapter comes from a published book with many authors and
sources listed.  
#+end_example

#+begin_example
Kargl, Michaela, et al. Interactive Data Visualization in R. 13 May
2018,
[[https://courses.isds.tugraz.at/ivis/surveys/ss2018/ivis-ss2018-g5-r-datavis-survey.pdf]].

Summary/About: ggvis is a data visualization package in R. It allows
the user to create interactive graphics. ggvis shares many principles
and much of its syntax with ggplot2. The main purpose of ggvis is to
combine aspects of R with the Web, through using shiny and Vega. ggvis
is built on top of shiny’s programming model and most of the basic
functions and controls in ggvis have an equivalent in shiny. 

Achieve: They describe ways and show examples of the interactions between ggvis
and other R packages such as shiny.

Relevance: Low; will only be used if we decide to try and use similar
methods for a particular aspect of our project in which we try to show
how ggvis can work in tandem with other packages.

Evaluation: Even though we’re only taking a very small amount of this
paper, overall it seems fairly well put together, by people who seem
to know what they are doing. It was interesting to learn about how
ggvis can interact with other R packages, and I think applying this in
our project could be fun.

Credibility: Medium; even though the sources are well documented and
accessible, I don’t feel confident enough in the paper to give it High
credibility, but it definitely seems mostly credible.
#+end_example

#+begin_example
Will, Markow, et al. “The Quant Crunch: How the Demand for Data
Science Skills Is Disrupting the Job Market.” Voced, Burning Glass
Technologies, 2017, [[https://www.voced.edu.au/content/ngv%3A76399]].

Summary/About: There is an education and job skill gap in the data
science field, and this article goes into detail about the need for
higher education and workforce development to shift and be responsive
to meet market demands. Part of the problem is the information gap and
how job titles and skills are not consistent when it comes to data
science. Burning Glass mined over 130 million current and past job
listings and along with IBM and BHEF, identified skills needed for
data science jobs. BG also split the skills into six job categories
and created a table with specialized skills for each of the six
occupations. They go on to work with the data gathered to create
different tables to convey their findings.
 
Achieve: They advocate for data literacy for everyone and developing
more talent for specific roles under the data science umbrella by
creating new data science education programs. They also encourage data
labs, creative spaces where experts from the field and in education
collaborate on problems, and top-down action plans for organizations,
where the more experienced data scientists can lead newer recruits,
talent for data science can be identified, and up-skilling initiatives
are put in place.

Relevance: High; intro, discussion. Data science categories and the
demand for them by industry chart, highest paying analytical skills
table Evaluation: I liked the recommendations they outlined (included
above in the ‘Achieve’ section. I liked that they included lots of
tables and presented their data in different ways. It was interesting
to see which were the top analytical skills in 2017 and which skills
were the fastest growing. Personally, I thought that the DSA Skills
Matrix and DSA Job Matrix was confusing; too much going on in one
visualization. I recommend this reading for those who are interested
in the Data Science job market, for both recruiter and recruitee as
well as for educators and students.

Credibility:
High(scholarly journal, backed by IBM and the Business-Higher
Education Forum)
#+end_example

#+begin_example
De Mauro, Andrea, et al. “Human Resources for Big Data Professions: A
Systematic Classification of Job Roles and Required Skill Sets.”
Science Direct, 8 June 2017,
[[https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0306457317300018?casa_token=VA2QEJzTWtoAAAAA%3Aaf06rIJQGyRKZsWXlIUClf1LXUwzdm2qeZFzrGSvJ1goa_Krj6Ime4rSo48Opbc4Vu3UN7dz5Tc+Summary%3A+The+researchers+dacollected+online+job+posts+through+web-scraping+and+using+the+keywords+%E2%80%98Big+Data.%E2%80%99+Then%2C+text+mining+and+algorithms+were+used+to+identify+which+and+the+level+of+skill+sets+the+job+posts+were+looking+for.++About%3A+Achieve%3A+They+found+that+%E2%80%98Data+Scientist%E2%80%99+is+used+loosely+by+%E2%80%9Ccompanies+exploiting+Bg+Data+Analytics%E2%80%9D+and+that+the+role+covers+a+variety+of+skills++Relevant%3A+Goes+into+detail+about+Big+Data+job+families+and+skill+sets+Evaluation%3A+Credibility%3A++https%3A%2F%2Fwww.csupom.com%2Fuploads%2F1%2F1%2F4%2F8%2F114895679%2Fv16n1p5.pdf+Lots+of+info%2C+comparing+big+data+analytics+and+data+science%2C+text+mining%2C+clustering%2C+some+interesting+visualizations+and+charts+to+reference+Partial+access+https%3A%2F%2Fwww.voced.edu.au%2Fcontent%2Fngv%3A76399++Data+science+categories+and+the+demand+for+them+by+industry+chart.+Highest+paying+analytical+skills+table++https%3A%2F%2Fieeexplore.ieee.org%2Fabstract%2Fdocument%2F9655894+No+access++https%3A%2F%2Fieeexplore.ieee.org%2Fabstract%2Fdocument%2F9096765+No+access]].

Summary: The researchers collected more than 2,700 online job posts
from ten different job recruitment websites through web-scraping (with
Portia) and using the keywords ‘Big Data.’ Then, text mining and
algorithms were used to identify which and the level of skill sets the
job posts were looking for. They used the R package “tm“ to run Latent
Dirichlet Allocation, a mixed-membership model, on job descriptions to
extract skills required for the job posts.

Achieve: They found that ‘Data Scientist’ is used loosely by
“companies exploiting Big Data Analytics” and that the role covers a
variety of hard and soft skills. Data scientists use analytical
methods, programming languages, and statistical platforms to transform
data into insights. Charts can be used by businesses for recruitment
purposes.

Relevance (how used): Medium; Intro, Go into detail about Big Data job
families and skill sets, specifics of data analytic skills Evaluation
(likes, dislikes, recommended to others): Really interesting reading,
easy to interpret charts and visualizations. I liked the Big Data Job
Families vs. Skill sets matrix and the table of popular keywords
grouped by skill set. I would recommend this paper to those who are
interested in knowing more about what skills are required in Big Data
jobs.

Credibility: High (scholarly paper, cited in multiple scholarly
journals, credible and extensive lit review)
#+end_example
